Step 1: open docker desktop

Step 2: open settings

Step 3: enable Kubernetes

Apply & restart

Wait for 5–10 mins

Step 4: Open Powershell or cmd

deploying an application (in this case, an Nginx web server) in Kubernetes
To test kubernetes
kubectl get nodes

→ Lists all the worker and master machines (nodes) that make up your cluster. It shows their status (Ready/NotReady), roles, age, and Kubernetes version.

kubectl cluster-info

→ Displays the control plane connection details. It tells you where the Kubernetes master and core services (like CoreDNS) are running and if they are accessible.

kubectl get nodes

→ It lists all currently running resources in your current namespace, including pods, services, deployments, and replica sets.

kubectl get all
kubectl create deployment ngnix --image=ngnix

→ This command creates a Deployment named ngnix. The deployment tells Kubernetes to pull the Nginx container image from a registry and ensure that one instance (pod) of it is running.

kubectl get pods

→ Lists all running instances of containers (Pods) in the cluster. After running the create command, you will see a pod named something like ngnix-848cfc977b-jk68z with a status of Running or ContainerCreating.

kubectl describe pod ngnix-848cfc977b-jk68z

→ Retrieves detailed logs and metadata about that specific pod. It is incredibly useful for troubleshooting (e.g., if the container fails to start, this shows you why).

kubectl expose deployment ngnix --type=NodePort --port=80

→ Creates a Kubernetes Service for your deployment. By setting the type to NodePort, Kubernetes opens a specific port on all your cluster nodes, mapping external traffic on that port directly to port 80 of your Nginx pod.

kubectl get services

→ Lists all network services. You will see your new ngnix service here, along with its internal cluster IP and the specific NodePort (usually a random number between 30000–32767) you can use to access Nginx from your browser.

kubectl describe deployment ngnix
kubectl scale deployment ngnix --replicas=3

→ Tells Kubernetes to scale up your application. Instead of running just 1 Nginx pod, it will now spin up 3 identical pods to share the traffic load.

kubectl delete pod ngnix-848cfc977b-ffsx8
kubectl get pods

→ Because you told the Deployment to maintain 3 replicas, Kubernetes will instantly realize a pod is missing and automatically spin up a brand new one to replace the one you just deleted. This showcases Kubernetes' self-healing capability.

kubectl delete pod ngnix-848cfc977b-7np65
kubectl get pods
kubectl delete deployment ngnix

→ Deletes the ngnix Deployment. This will automatically clean up and terminate all 3 Nginx pods associated with it.

(Note: The Service created via kubectl expose will still exist and would need to be deleted separately via kubectl delete service ngnix).

kubectl get all
Deploy an NGINX application in Kubernetes cluster and access it through browser
Step 1

First, we create a deployment. This tells Kubernetes to download the NGINX image and run it inside a container (called a Pod).

kubectl create deployment nginx-app --image=nginx
kubectl get pods
Step 2: Expose NGINX to the Outside World

By default, your NGINX application is only accessible from inside the Kubernetes cluster.

To open it up to your web browser, you need to expose it using a Kubernetes Service.

If you are using Local Kubernetes (Minikube, Kind, Docker Desktop)

Local setups typically don't have a built-in cloud load balancer, so we use NodePort to open a high-numbered port (between 30000–32767) on your local machine.

kubectl expose deployment nginx-app --type=NodePort --port=80
Step 3: Access it in Your Browser

Now, let's get the address to type into your browser.

Run this command to check the status of your service:

kubectl get services nginx-app

Look at the PORT(S) column.

You will see something like:

80:31234/TCP

The second number (31234) is your target port.

For Docker Desktop:

http://localhost:31234
Delete the Application
kubectl delete deployment nginx-app
kubectl delete service nginx-app

Meaning your Kubernetes cluster is running inside a virtualized environment on Windows (like Minikube running via VirtualBox/Hyper-V, or a remote cloud VM) rather than directly on your Windows host network.

Because of this isolation, localhost points to your physical Windows machine, but the port 30530 is only open on the internal Kubernetes Node IP.

Here is how to find the correct address to type into your browser, depending on what tool you used to install Kubernetes.

If you are strictly using the Kubernetes engine built directly into Docker Desktop for Windows, localhost:30530 should usually map automatically.

If it isn't working:

Check your Windows Firewall or any active VPN software, as they frequently block local port forwarding between Windows and WSL2/Docker networks.

kubectl port-forward deployment/nginx-app 8080:80

Keep that terminal window open and go to:

http://localhost:8080
